i'm not here to reach out to you know
the most
weak-minded weak-willed people who are
just
not smart enough not strong enough not
self-discipline enough to keep up a
vegan diet
okay conversely i'm not going to lie to
you
and say that a vegan diet is easy for
most of us if we grew up in this culture
it's not easy but if you are thinking of
veganism
as a movement as a political
social ethical movement
look back at the history of the world
and you tell me
who has suffered less
there were people in ancient greece
in ancient rome in ancient sparta
who stood up and said slavery is wrong
and they fought to the death to liberate
the slaves
and you know what they liberated some
slaves
they liberated particular slaves
particular
families of slaves particular
communities of slaves
but they utterly failed to challenge or
overturn
the institution of slavery the nature
of the vegan revolution in this way
at this stage in this century is not
that we're going to liberate
all humanity is not that we're going to
liberate all animals
it's that we are in small groups
going to liberate ourselves
my sling is editorial explicit material
briefcase show live a stereo flow fill
me
the vast majority of health claims
made by vegans are [ __ ]
all of the claims made by
anti-vegans and ex-vegans are [ __ ]
the fact that one is [ __ ] does not
mean
the opposite is the opposite of [ __ ]
quick parallelism for you here all the
time
on my youtube channel in discussions
with people face to face
i encourage them to quit video games so
that they can have
a more meaningful life grown men
whatever whether you're 18 years old 20
years old 38 years old
grown men playing video games i say ah
you know what i think you should focus
on having a more meaningful life
quitting video games can be part and
parcel of that and once in a while
once in a while people write back to me
or say back to me
well you know it's possible to quit
playing video games and then have a life
that is
just as meaningless or even worse
than what your life was before playing
video games
and that's true it's possible it's
unlikely
but it's possible now by the same token
if you eliminate eggs from your diet
and you eliminate cheese from your diet
those are two of the unhealthiest foods
that are commonly consumed by human
beings
on planet earth it is possible
you would replace eggs and cheese
with some vegan food that is even
unhealthier
than eggs and cheese it's unlikely
that's why most people just kind of
advocate veganism in this vague way and
they figure
they assume you in the audience will
figure it out
having something in your diet that is
predominantly
just fat and salt
is obviously going to be unhealthy for
you whether it is vegan
or non-vegan i admit eggs and cheese
specifically are so extraordinarily
unhealthy
that it's hard to come up with something
in a vegan diet that's even worse
but yeah you could you could go from
being a
sober meat eater to being an alcoholic
vegan and now because your diet is
primarily whiskey and vodka
vodka is vegan you know that
nevertheless you're in a downward spiral
in terms of it's possible
it's possible and let's face it if you
are just eating french fries
deep fried potato potato chips whatever
you want to put this
you know they're terrible for your
health the percentage of a french fry
that you get at a mainstream fast food
restaurant that's that's fat
it's mind-blowing it's unbelievably
unhealthy okay
when people talk to me about these
problems which is rare
because they know i am not going to tell
them
what they want to hear but when people
get in touch to me
when people get in touch with me on the
internet and talk to me about these
problems
right the main thing i emphasize is
there is no magical difference between
the problems you are having with a vegan
diet
and what problems you would be having if
you were attempting the same things
on a non-vegan meat inclusive dairy
inclusive diet
because on a molecular level fat
is fat protein is protein carbs are
carbs and believe it or not
meat eaters have to deal with the same
macronutrients okay
meat eaters have some special
disadvantages in their diet
like cholesterol if you want to have a
zero cholesterol diet
it's pretty much got to be a vegan diet
to my knowledge honey bee honey does not
contain
cholesterol so you could be a vegan who
has honey i must be a non-vegan
of that one and you know then you
wouldn't have this issue cholesterol is
a special disadvantage of a
medium diet just struggling with having
too much fat
in your diet is a problem with meat
eaters diet whereas as a vegan you
you could in theory struggle with having
not enough fat
but if people write to me very rarely
this happens people write to me and say
that they were ethical vegans
but they were struggling because they
didn't have enough fat in their diet
and then they eat chicken eggs and they
feel that eating chicken eggs eggs
miraculously solved all these problems
what i have to say in reply is
guess what there is nothing special
about the fat found in chicken eggs
there is nothing special
about the protein found in chicken eggs
now there is something special about the
cholesterol but setting that aside for
the moment
if your problem was that your diet as a
vegan
didn't have enough fat or didn't have
enough protein
you could eat more fat and more protein
within a vegan diet and you will get the
same changes
you will get the same results and just
talk it through with me here
what do you think under a microscope or
in a laboratory
is the difference or is the health
advantage for you
in getting the fat molecule from a dead
animal
as opposed to getting it from an avocado
if you're talking about exactly the same
quantity
of fat now a lot of vegans make
impassioned over-the-top arguments about
the superiority
of getting fat from a plant as opposed
to an animal
like a dietary nutritional superiority
of platinum the dietary nutritional
superiority
of protein guys it's fractional
you know there are advantages to a vegan
diet but they're not miraculous
they're not impressive i i said this a
million years ago on my channel
if you are on a university campus as i
used to be used to going to classes
regular university
and you go and attend a session of the
vegan club
so university students are eating a
vegan diet and then you instead
go to uh the science club or the
the cheerleaders for the sports team or
uh
i'm running out of ideas for clubs at
the university my university wasn't very
club intensive i have to admit
oh yeah there was a club for people who
are learning chinese there's a club for
people doing different kinds of studies
and different kinds of hobbies or
whatever
if you go and compare these different
clubs of students
it's just not the case that you walk
into the room with the vegans
and say wow you guys look amazingly
healthy
you look amazingly impressive compared
to the other clubs no
probably if you go to the the athletes
club whether it's the football players
or the cheerleaders like
probably they're going to be a bit more
physically impressive than the science
club
probably if you go to the the performing
arts students club the kids who want to
be movie stars
they're probably going to be better
looking and more fit for reasons that
have nothing to do with the vegan diet
but no if you show up and meet the
vegans and meet the animal rights
activists
they look like normal people all right
veganism is a normal diet
it has the advantages and disadvantages
of any other normal human diet
the difference is ethical the difference
is ecological
the difference is your sense of personal
responsibility and doing the right thing
because it's the right thing to do now
another huge
ghost haunting this discourse is
cultural because the production and
consumption of food
in every any given place at any given
point of time
is culturally conditioned
i knew this [ __ ] for years on youtube
who used to be vegan who used to be a
vegan activist and now
is not only a meat eater and a cardist
but appeared on spheroge's channel if
you don't know who that is don't look it
up and i'm aware
his name is not actually pronounced
sphereage that's become his moniker
here on the internet he went over and
did an interview on sverge's channel
slamming and condemning the vegan diet
and attributing all of his problems in
life's vegan diet
and attributing the solutions to eating
eggs and cheese right now not only do i
know that everything this guy is saying
is false deluded and self-serving
because of the evidence that was on his
youtube channel in the past right i also
talked to him during the process because
he came to me and asked for help and
advice
when he was struggling with a vegan diet
and one of the things i had to come to
again again is
you know white people
in the united states of america do not
know
how to cook beans and this is not just a
problem
for vegans this is a problem for meat
eaters
if you add fish and eggs and cheese to
your diet
like you you go from being vegan to
endless things guess what
if you eat out in a mexican restaurant
anywhere in the united states america
or canada you can have 6 to 12 hours of
indigestion because of undercooked beans
right the problem with beans
is not that they're vegan the reason why
they're hard to digest
isn't even fiber if you take beans
straight out of the can
rinse them off and eat them there's the
same amount
of fiber as if you took those beans
rinse them off
put them in a pressure cooker and cook
them for four hours
at high temperature under pressure okay
the fiber
doesn't disappear the fiber doesn't
evaporate in the air
when the beans are thoroughly cooked
they're easier to digest
and guess what if you own a fast food
restaurant in the united states of
america
you have a massive economic incentive to
cook the beans as
little as possible or not at all
and that's what restaurants across the
united states of america and canada do
they serve people indigestible beans
every day
and guess what if you are a eater you
will get indigestion
from undercooked beans the same god damn
way
of vegan oil this particular guy
has indigestion has digestive problems
on his vegan diet
which allegedly are cured by eating eggs
and i talked this through with him at
the time before he'd made up his mind
that he was going to become not just ex
vegan but anti-vegan
right i said to him look if you have a
problem
caused by digesting beans eating eggs
won't solve that problem but just just
talk it through with me
just let's just stay on the same page
here right if you have indigestion
caused by eating beans and then you eat
the beans and eggs together at the same
time
you're still going to have that
indigestion caused by beans
now conversely if your problem is solved
because you stopped eating beans and you
started getting
fat and protein from another source
again this
really has nothing to do with veganism
or non-veganism it's not that there is
some special molecule
in the egg that would not be available
from some other vegan source
if what your body needs is protein what
your body needs is fat what your body
needs is
carbohydrates calories and a list of
minerals and vitamins
and your body doesn't really care where
those come from right your body doesn't
react
differently to protein that comes from a
murdered animal
or protein that comes from
weight lifters vegan protein powder
right you talk about a pro
processed protein powder like pea
protein powder
sold in a tub i think you probably see
some in the background for this video
actually on the shelf back there
you know what your body is going to take
that and digest it and use it
period okay and what i heard back from
this guy it's no surprise that he
eventually went
ex-vegan was a whole lot of
superstitious
horseshit that he had pieced together
from
reddit you know this is like a little
bird flying around and putting together
a bird's nest of pseudoscience
he's convinced himself that he can't use
protein powder
because that's going to cause liver and
kidney damage
where did he get that freely durianrider
where do you get that notion
the same time this guy is expecting to
miraculously transform himself
from being like a skinny fat 90 pounds
to looking like a professional
bodybuilder without using protein powder
because he believes that protein powder
is the devil
all right now again if you put it under
a microscope
the protein you get from eating peas
and the protein you get from taking a
body builders
p protein powder it's exactly
the same molecule what someone has done
in a factory
is desiccated the peas they take the
peas they remove the liquid
they spin it out grind it down and sell
you the protein powder
right when your body eats protein powder
from peas molecule by molecule there's
no difference
between that protein and the protein
that would have been there if you ate
several cans of peas what's the
difference
the difference is the amount of time you
have to spend cooking
have to spend cleaning up afterwards and
the difference is the amount of time you
have to spend
digesting and if you lift weights heavy
if you're going to the gym
three hours a day the amount of time
it's like if you want to be a
bodybuilder you want to look like a
movie star or whatever
for men it's a ton of work it's a ton of
pain it's a ton of suffering
it's a ton of heavy lifting assuming
you're not using steroids and i don't
even think it's all that easy if you're
using steroids kind of another story
right
molecule by molecule what do you think
is the advantage of eating chicken eggs
and
cheese dead cow cheese over getting
protein molecules out of a weight
lifters
powder when i talk to these people this
particular guy or anyone
they can never answer these questions
they can never
think of the world in terms of its
constituent parts
molecule by molecule they can only
answer
in terms of ideology in terms of frankly
spiritual misconceptions about the world
and it's a bitter irony
that it's these same spiritual
misconceptions
that lead them into veganism that lead
them
out of veganism like oh they believed in
mother earth
and gaia and nature and having a natural
diet and at one time they conceptualized
that as a vegan diet
and at that same time within the vegan
diet they had a kind of
you know anti-processed food hysteria of
refusing to eat protein powder maybe
refusing to eat processed sugar
like refusing to process unnatural
things
and then the same fixation with
so-called nature and the idea that
they're going to heal their gut and heal
their digestion
by eating dead animal parts then draws
them back into
not just a carnivore diet but into
joining the anti-vegan
ex-vegan movement appearing on
spherica's channel
and to be fair to spheridge what his own
philosophy
is basically is a pro-nature philosophy
he is in favor of nature red and tooth
and fang not just in terms of
killing animals but killing humans he's
about getting back to
the stone age now whether or not he
actually lives that whether or not
that's a coherent philosophy
i'm not going to get into this video but
he's saying that's what he represents
and that's why his message is appealing
to some vegans and obviously some
ex-vegans
who become anti-vegans okay
now why do people
go from being passionate advocates of
veganism
to denouncing veganism and claiming it's
impossible
and keep in mind some of these people
some of these people talk to me
okay right now i'm using no gym
right now i'm back to doing 200 push-ups
a day in my own room
with no other access to weights no other
actors exercise okay
i am 42 years old i'm over 200 pounds
i do push-ups with my feet elevated okay
i am doing okay with minimum effort
on a vegan diet and what these people
are saying and what they're saying to me
is that my results are impossible
that it's impossible to digest protein
on a vegan diet that it's impossible to
get adequate protein that's possibly
adequate fat then it's impossible to
gain
body weight to gain fat let alone muscle
tissue
on a vegan diet all right now i am
living
proof that not only can you gain muscle
tissue in a vegan diet
but you can gain body fat i've got to
say i seem to be especially gifted
at gaining body fat on a vegan diet
that's that's a real humble brag for you
okay i could eat nothing but carbs on a
vegan diet and still gain
body fat this is my this is my great
talent life
what these people are saying to me is
that what i take for granted as
normal seven days a week not not any
great accomplishment i'm you know my
priorities in life
i want to study chinese i want to study
french i have a stack of books about
politics i want to read
i'm writing a book of my own i want to
get my book published
i'm going through a divorce i have a
youtube channel there are so many things
in my life
that are a higher priority than lifting
weight to the gym
or even doing my 200 push-ups a day
right
and there's a right now we're in the
middle of a global pandemic
there are reasons to be stuck inside
your house and not doing normal kinds of
things
precise i'm not trying to be a bikini
model
out here freely enduring writer used to
say their their main claim is to be that
you can effortlessly
have a great body on a vegan diet okay
i'm going to tell you something
if you were a middle-aged man you could
effortlessly
have the same kind of mediocre results i
have because what i'm doing right now
it's pretty close
to zero effort and these people are
writing into me claiming that it is a
scientific certainty after their
[ __ ] anecdotal experience that it's
just
impossible to gain body weight on a
vegan diet fat
or or protein these people came oh they
were just wasting weight they were just
withering away
they were just losing weight they just
couldn't digest anything
on a vegan diet all right and they write
to me
asking for advice what advice
am i supposed to [ __ ] give you all
right
we have this saying in english wishful
thinking it's very clear what we mean by
wishful thinking the problem with that
phrase is it only concerns
positive aspirations positive desires
pardon me we don't have a term
for the equivalent of wishful thinking
when what you're fixated on
is negative or self-sabotaging right
these people put themselves in a mindset
where they are looking to justify
their own indigestion they are looking
to justify
their own struggles their own
difficulties with the vegan diet they're
looking to reify this as if it's a law
of physics
as if there's an insuperable obstacle
that requires them
to give up their ethical and ecological
commitment to veganism and to instead
embrace killing animals so they can get
quote unquote
adequate fat and protein in their diets
right and it's very telling to me that
they are not even willing to try
they're not even going to try as an
experiment
eliminating the eggs eliminating the
cheese
from their diet and getting the same
macros getting the same ratios of
macronutrients
getting more fat and more protein in
their diet
from vegan sources from vegan means see
how that goes
right they are much more willing to
believe oh well
you know i looked at reddit and i
searched around read it
and there were all these other people
saying that they were allergic to soy
and saying that they couldn't digest
beans
so i thought that must be my problem
really
really this dude i'm thinking of who
went to who went to
sphyrij's channel and announced veganism
he said that he saw
three different doctors in real life and
had
blood tests and all the doctors said
there was nothing wrong with him
was that he made up all these
explanations of mine not just the soy
allergy thing oh well i've convinced
myself that it's a problem with my
stomach acid
that my stomach acid is too low so i
can't digest these things and the reason
for a stomach acid being low is like the
absence of eggs
in his diet right yeah and then chicken
eggs solve this problem
i start talking him through what the
actual symptoms are of having low
stomach acid because when you actually
have that condition
there's a whole list of symptoms that he
doesn't have mysteriously
just like the soy allergy these are
symptoms you don't have that don't match
your case
at all and guess what when the doctors
did those blood tests on you
here are the nutrient deficiencies that
would show up because then we're not
talking about something being deficient
in your diet
the point is even if you are eating
eating certain nutrients
they will not be digested properly
because you don't have the stomach acid
to do it oh gee what do you know i just
objectively and rationally proved that
your theory
justifying why you quit the vegan diet
and went back to eating meat and eggs
and cheese
is complete [ __ ] that it's actually
impossible that it cannot be true
and she i just affirmed that when those
doctors said
there is nothing wrong with you
physically
they were telling the truth and you
didn't want to believe your doctors
and you didn't want to believe me you
wanted to fly around the internet
like a little bird picking out you know
branches
here and there to put together a bird's
nest of excuses
to go back to eating meat so why is it
so what is the real problem here
all right the problem is not
physiological
the problem is not your digestion the
problem is not that you have an allergy
the problem is you
stupidity is real there are a lot of
stupid selfish people on the internet
sharing their crazy theories to justify
completely self-indulgent short-term
decisions they're making
and these people find each other they
find others who make the excuses
that they want to make for themselves
and what they engage in
is parallel to wishful thinking but i
mean an example of wishful thinking
is just convincing yourself that if you
move to los
angeles and rent an apartment you're
going to become a movie star or a famous
singer
all you got to do is go there you know
that's wishful thinking this is the
opposite this is self-sabotaging
thinking
this is this is like hey you know what
and it's happened to me
you go to a mexican restaurant and eat
undercooked beans
or you grew up in a household where
nobody ever really taught you how many
hours you have to boil beans to make
them digestible
you have indigestion from eating beans
and your mind
starts running you start thinking you
start putting together this theory
that there's something wrong with you
that biologically you have some unique
problem that excludes you from the vegan
movement you're having a problem
nobody else has ever had before you're
in a special minority of people
who biologically need to eat meat
because you had a bad taco
because you had a bad burrito because
you had six hours
of indigestion okay
i have never made videos reaching out to
the stupidest forty percent of the
audience
okay and i'm not gonna start i'm not
here to reach out to
you know the most weak-minded
weak-willed people
who are just not smart enough not strong
enough
not self-discipline enough to keep up a
vegan
diet okay conversely i'm not gonna lie
to you
and say that a vegan diet is easy for
most of us if we grew up in this culture
it's not easy there's a lot to figure
out all right
whether it's figuring out how to boil
beans how to get enough protein
how to get the mix of nutrients you need
on your it's not easy
it's hard work okay but if you are
thinking of veganism
as a movement as a political
social ethical movement
look back at the history of the world
and you tell me
who has suffered less
there were people in ancient greece
in ancient rome in ancient sparta
who stood up and said slavery is
wrong and they fought to the death
to liberate the slaves and you know what
they liberated some slaves they
liberated
particular slaves particular families of
slaves
particular communities of slaves but
they utterly failed
to challenge or overturn the institution
of slavery as such centuries later
you can look at the history of slave
rebellions in the caribbean
in south america long before
the abolition of slavery there were
revolutions
that didn't abolish slavery that didn't
end slavery
that just liberated some slaves
while other people continued to be
bought and sold
continued to be enslaved the nature
of the vegan revolution in this way
at this stage in this century is not
that we're going to liberate
all humanity is not that we're going to
liberate all animals
it's that we are in small groups
going to liberate ourselves
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes